# Matplotlib Challenge

Pymaceuticals Inc. is a pharmaceutical company based out of San Diego that specializes in screening potential treatments for squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), a commonly occurring form of skin cancer. In its most recent efforts to discover the treatment regimen that will deliver the greatest results, a study of 249 mice identified with SCC tumor growth were treated through a variety of drug regimens. Over the course of 45 days, tumor development was observed and measured. The purpose of this study was to compare the performance of Pymaceuticals' drug of interest, Capomulin, versus the other treatment regimens. Tables and figures needed for the technical report of the study and a top-level summary of the study results were generated from the complete data obtained from their most recent animal study.

The following are some of the obsevations and insights after extracting and analyzing the data:

 1. Ramicane, Capomulin, Infubinol & Ceftamin were among the potential treatments for squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), a commonly occuring skin cancer. Based on the data, these treatments have the lowest standard deviations compared to the rest of the other 6 treatments. However, Ramicane (standard deviation of 4.85) and Capomulin (standard deviation of 4.99) were the most preferred treatments because they have a significantly lower standard deviation compared to Infubinol and Ceftamin. Standar deviation is a measure of variations of data from the mean. A small standard deviation translates into lesser risk because the the data are clustered closely around the mean and the variability is low. Therefore, this study suggested that Ramicane and Capomulin were drug regimens with very low risk & the most effective & reliable in reversing tumor growth in mice.

 2. The stacked graph of Mice Participation by Timepoints for each Drug Regimen showed that the total number of mice decreases as it reaches the 45th day, from 250 mice on the beginning of the study when measurements of tumor volumes were recorded to approximately 140 mice on the 45th day. The graph also showed no significant changes in the number of mice treated with Ramicane and Capomulin for each time observations. It appeared that there were total of 50 mice treated with both regimens in the beginning (time 0) and still ended up with 50 mice on the 45th day. Therefore, it can be concluded that the tumor volumes of mice being treated has gotten smaller over time, which again shows a strong indication that these drug regimens yield the most effective results.

 3. The box and whiskers plot resulted to 1 outlier from Ramicane and 1 outlier from Capomulin. In reference to the 2nd observation above, it can be assumed that the general trend of the majority of the mice treated with these regimens experienced decline in tumor volume over time. Both outliers showed a material improvement in the measurement of tumor volume, which was the expected result to be able to conclude that the data fits in to the general trend. It can be assumed that these two mice had a great physiological reaction to both regimens that it had significantly reversed the growth of their tumors. I would be more concerned if the outlier is above the 3rd Quartile, which would mean that the tumor volume increased and therefore wouldn't fit the general trend. 

 4. Based on the scatter plot and pearson r of 0.95 obtained from the correlation coefficient of the regression line in Capomulin, there is a strong and positive relationship between the weight of the mice and the growth of the tumor volume. Capomulin is less effective when the weight of the mouse is heavier.